Project Write-Up:

1. Deliverables: This project's deliverables come in 2 forms and are updated/sent daily a little past 2:30am EST with the top 5 most important songs of the day:

"Top 5 Important Songs of the Day" Google Spreadsheet: An auto-generated spreadsheet that includes user input options to customize the Importance Score calculation and pause daily emails 

Daily Email: an email sent daily with the Top5ImportantSongs.csv file attached and the link to the Google Spreadsheet updated for that day (the sender email: zacharywongdatascience@gmail.com)

2. Input Options: Users have 3 input options to customize, via the Google Spreadsheet, the Number of Top Songs and Unranked Song Score (these parameters are important for calculating the song's Importance Score - explained in the below sections) and whether to receive daily emails. 

Number of Top Songs: The n top songs the user wants to capture for each city for this program. The maximum is 50.  
 
Unranked Song Score: The score that lowers the rankings given to songs that are not in the top chart for the city. A higher unranked song score more greatly "punishes" songs left out of the city's top chart. The minimum value is 1 because this score will is added to the Number of Top Songs value to determine the ranking of those songs left out of the city's top charts (more explanation of Importance Scores below). 

Pause Emails (Y/N): Type in Y to pause emails and N to send emails (case-sensitive)

3. How To Read the Importance Scores: 

The most important songs are those that have broken into multiple cities’ Top Shazam Charts with high rankings but have not broken into Shazam’s national US Top Chart yet. 

The idea behind this definition of Importance is that it’s crucial for Atlantic Records to know which songs/artists people are listening to in each city that has not caught onto national attention yet. If one of Atlantic Records’ artists has a song of high importance as per this definition, Atlantic Records can invest in more resources to boost this song to more radio channels/streaming playlists for greater revenue. Atlantic Records can also use this data to sign new artists before they become bigger national hits: this program will help them identify up and coming talent. 

The Importance Score is calculated by adding up all the rankings for each city (every city in which the song isn’t ranked in its top chart is automatically calculated by adding the chart's lowest ranking number + the user inputted Unranked Song Score) and dividing the total sum by the number of cities. Therefore, the most important songs have the lowest Importance Score. 

4. Data Collection Method: Data/rankings are collected using Selenium/webscraping 

5. Front-End Interactives/Graphics: Dynamic tables and graphs are located in the auto-generated Google Sheet 

6. Automation: The script is automated using cronjobs. 